README.md, before:

# What you can learn from building a CI/CD pipeline?
CI/CD pipelines are a modern way to improve the software development and deployment process.

There are several development environments prior to rolling out into the production environment, each with distinct configuration files, such as SIT, UAT, and Staging. By automating the deployment process, CI/CD pipelines can prevent human errors, such as deploying incorrect configuration files or outdated application versions.

By reducing manual work, CI/CD accelerates the overall SDLC cycle. With automated unit tests and regression testing built into the pipeline, developers can ensure their code is deployed as expected without altering the core logic of the application. Furthermore, combining CI/CD with Test-Driven Development (TDD) practices and agile project management decreases software delivery time and expedites the entire development cycle.

The advantages of implementing CI/CD pipelines would have been significant in my previous roles. Below is an experiment I conducted with Jenkins to achieve an automated deployment process.

<img width="1084" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-08 at 10 06 12 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3469cd4-2858-416f-8492-7df235bd46ff" />

# Setup github on your PC
```zsh
# install git
brew install git
git version

# install nodejs
brew install node
node -v
npm -v
```

# Getting Started with Create React App
```bash
npx create-react-app persion-website
```

## Available Scripts
In the project directory, you can run:
```bash
# Runs the app in the development mode.
# Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.
npm start

# Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.
npm test

# Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.
npm build
```

<img width="1280" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-08 at 10 29 11 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e8126d92-e9c3-4349-89c4-6335cfc3bf7b" />

# Setting Up GitHub Webhook with Jenkins
## 1. Install Required Plugins
First, you need to install some plugins in Jenkins to support integration with GitHub:
1.	Open the Jenkins web interface.
2.	Navigate to `Manage Jenkins` → `Plugins`.
3.	In the `Available plugins` tab, search for and install the following plugins:
- **GitHub Plugin**: Provides bi-directional integration between Jenkins and GitHub.
- **Git Plugin**: Allows Jenkins to use Git repositories as the source for your project.
- **Pipeline Plugin (if you are using pipelines)**: Enables you to write scripts to define the build process.

![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 40 04 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb37e548-6fe7-4646-ad71-03a896f1d132)

## 2. Create a Personal Access Token on GitHub
1.	Log in to GitHub: Go to [github.com]](https://github.com/) and log in to your account.
2.	Access `Developer Settings`:
- Click on your profile picture in the top-right corner and `select` Settings.
- In the left sidebar, scroll down and click on `Developer settings`.
3.	Generate a New Token:
- Click on `Personal access tokens`, then select `Tokens (classic)`, and click `Generate new token`.
- Provide a descriptive name for the token to remind you of its purpose.
- Set an expiration date to enhance security.
```bash
1. repo: Grants full control over private and public repositories, including read and write permissions.
- This is necessary for Jenkins to access your GitHub repository for cloning, pulling, and pushing operations.
2.	admin:repo_hook: Allows management of repository-level webhooks.
- This enables Jenkins to automatically set up and manage webhooks in your repository to trigger builds.
3.	admin:org_hook (if applicable): Allows management of organization-level webhooks.
- This is necessary if you are running Jenkins jobs at the organization level.
4.	read:org: Allows reading of organization and team member information.
- This is useful for Jenkins to retrieve organizational structure information for authorization and access control.
5.	user:email: Allows reading the user’s primary email address.
- This helps Jenkins verify the user’s identity.
```
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 48 24 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/381b3c59-dbdb-4a12-957e-36b65eff9e19)

4. Click `Generate Token`.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 50 24 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ea7157d-53dc-45c8-9337-6aac77a25719)
5. Copy the generated token immediately and store it securely. Once you leave this page, you will not be able to view it again.

## 3. Configure GitHub Credentials
1.	Access Jenkins Credentials:
- Log in to your Jenkins instance.
- Navigate to `Manage Jenkins` → `Credentials`.
- Select the appropriate domain (e.g., Global credentials (unrestricted)).
2.	Add New Credential:
- Click Add Credentials.
- In the Kind dropdown, select `Username with password`.
- Enter your GitHub username in the `Username` field.
- Paste the personal access token in the `Password` field.
- Provide a description to easily identify this credential.
- Click `OK` to save.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 59 14 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af24497a-34d2-4c48-878b-3f363ba7f7c1)

## 4. Setting Up Source Control Management in Jenkins
1.	In the Jenkins dashboard, select the project you want to configure and click `Configure`
2.	In the Source Code Management section, select `Git`, then enter your repository URL.
3.	In the Credentials dropdown menu, select the GitHub credentials you added earlier.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 00 36 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02b8933c-2ad5-406d-a2ac-db8c957f398f)

## 5. Set Up a Webhook in GitHub:
1.	Go to your GitHub repository and click `Settings`.
2.	In the left sidebar, select `ebhooks`, then click `Add webhook`.
3.	In the Payload URL field, enter the URL of your Jenkins server, followed by /github-webhook/. For example: http://your-jenkins-server.com/github-webhook/.
4.	Set the Content type to `application/json`.
5.	Under Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?, select `Just the push event`.
6.	Click Add webhook to save.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 03 20 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa749322-e9f4-4368-8fa0-fad5d06bd81e)

## 6. Configure Your Jenkins Job:
1.	In the Jenkins dashboard, select the job you want to configure and click Configure.
2.	In the Source Code Management section, select `Git`, enter your repository URL, and select the credentials you added earlier.
3.	In the Build Triggers section, check the box for `GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling`.
4.	In the Build section, add the appropriate build steps, such as executing a shell script to install dependencies and run tests:
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 05 38 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c17cbfd-6171-4651-87cc-b77cec5402d3)

# Dockerize a react app
There two methods to dockerize a application, which are using Dockerfile and Docker Compose.

## What is the difference of Docker file and Docker Compose?
A Dockerfile is a text file that contains various of command to build a docker image. In this case, you can setup a Dockerfile with below commands:
```docker
From node:20
WORKDIR /app
COPY package.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .	
EXPOSE 5173
CMD [ "npm", "start" ]
```

Once you created a Dockerfile, you can enter below commands to build and run a docker image.
```bash
docker build  -f Dockerfile -t personal-website .
docker run -p 3000:3000 personal-website
```

A Docker Compose is a tools for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. We use a YAML file to define multiple services. In this case, you can setup a YAML with below commands:
```docker
version: '3'

services:
  personal-website:
    image: node:20
    working_dir: /app
    volumes:
      - .:/app
    ports:
      - "5173:5173"
    command: sh -c "npm install && npm start"
```

Once you created a YAML file, you can enter below commands to build and run a docker image.
```bash
docker compose up
```

# Build a docker image using Jenkins
## 1. Ensure Jenkins Has Access to Docker

In order for Jenkins to execute Docker commands, you need to ensure that the Jenkins container has access to Docker.

On Unraid, you can achieve this by mounting the Docker Unix socket (/var/run/docker.sock) to the Jenkins container.
1.	Edit Jenkins Container Settings: Go to the `Docker` settings page in Unraid, find the Jenkins container, and click `Edit`.
2.	Add Mount Point: In the `Add another Path, Port, Variable, Label or Device` section, click `Add another Path`.
3.	Set Mount Point:
- **Container Path**: `/var/run/docker.sock`
- **Host Path**: `/var/run/docker.sock`
- **Access Mode**: `Read/Write`
```bash
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v /usr/bin/docker:/usr/bin/docker \
```
<img width="1617" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 12 58 22 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/29aa11c2-415a-4725-a0c3-7b1349868d02" />

## 2. Check Docker Socket Permissions
```bash
chmod 666 /var/run/docker.sock
```
> Please note that doing this may introduce security risks, as it grants Jenkins full control over the host’s Docker.
> Therefore, make sure you trust all the code running in Jenkins jobs.


## 3. Install Required Plugins in Jenkins
Docker Pipeline Plugin: Allows the use of Docker functionality within Jenkins Pipelines.

To install this plugin:
- On the Jenkins homepage, click `Manage Jenkins`.
- Select `Plugins`.
- In the Available tab, search for `Docker Pipeline`.
- Check the plugin and then click Install without restart.
<img width="1230" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 05 18 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9fce8ac3-fe0d-40c4-b654-c03c6b424e79" />

## 4. Add Docker Build and Docker Run Commands in Execute Shell
To build and run a Docker container as part of your Jenkins job, you can add the following Docker commands to the Execute shell section:
```bash
docker build -t personal-website -f /config/workspace/personal-website/Dockerfile /config/workspace/personal-website
docker run -d -p 5173:5173 --name my-first-website personal-website
```
<img width="1059" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 23 16 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/512dc0f7-b4be-4e3b-a7ba-d0fbd3eebc2b" />
<img width="968" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 22 01 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb4f9ec9-bd3b-48fc-a1e8-c0bc7e398d5b" />
<img width="1615" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 24 25 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9773850c-2e8d-4b99-bd7f-aa54452a35ea"/>
<img width="1077" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 25 03 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a0eaf0c-cea5-41ef-812d-2eb03752ea51" />

Commit message:

Update README: Add explanation on the importance of learning CI/CD pipelines and Docker

README.md, after:

# What can you gain from building a CI/CD Pipeline
CI/CD pipelines are a modern way to improve the software development and deployment process.

There are several development environments prior to rolling out into the production environment, each with distinct configuration files, such as SIT, UAT, and Staging. By automating the deployment process, CI/CD pipelines can prevent human errors, such as deploying incorrect configuration files or outdated application versions.

By reducing manual work, CI/CD accelerates the overall SDLC cycle. With automated unit tests and regression testing built into the pipeline, developers can ensure their code is deployed as expected without altering the core logic of the application. Furthermore, combining CI/CD with Test-Driven Development (TDD) practices and agile project management decreases software delivery time and expedites the entire development cycle.

The advantages of implementing CI/CD pipelines would have been significant in my previous roles. Below is an experiment I conducted with Jenkins to achieve an automated deployment process.

<img width="1084" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-08 at 10 06 12 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3469cd4-2858-416f-8492-7df235bd46ff" />

# Why Dockerising Applications is a Game-Changer
Docker is a containerisation tool that allows us to build, package, and run applications in containers.

Compared to traditional servers, containers are more lightweight. By sharing the host OS kernel, they are more efficient and faster than virtual machines. Furthermore, Docker’s platform-independent characteristics ensure applications run consistently across different environments, such as Windows desktops, cloud-based Linux servers, or Kubernetes clusters.

When combined with Jenkins, the same Docker images can be used for both testing and production, ensuring a smooth and reliable transition across environments.

# Setup github on your PC
```zsh
# install git
brew install git
git version

# install nodejs
brew install node
node -v
npm -v
```

# Getting Started with Create React App
```bash
npx create-react-app persion-website
```

In the project directory, you can run:
```bash
# Runs the app in the development mode.
# Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.
npm start

# Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.
npm test

# Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.
npm build
```

<img width="1280" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-08 at 10 29 11 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e8126d92-e9c3-4349-89c4-6335cfc3bf7b" />

# Setting Up GitHub Webhook with Jenkins
## 1. Install Required Plugins
First, you need to install some plugins in Jenkins to support integration with GitHub:
1.	Open the Jenkins web interface.
2.	Navigate to `Manage Jenkins` → `Plugins`.
3.	In the `Available plugins` tab, search for and install the following plugins:
- **GitHub Plugin**: Provides bi-directional integration between Jenkins and GitHub.
- **Git Plugin**: Allows Jenkins to use Git repositories as the source for your project.
- **Pipeline Plugin (if you are using pipelines)**: Enables you to write scripts to define the build process.

![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 40 04 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb37e548-6fe7-4646-ad71-03a896f1d132)

## 2. Create a Personal Access Token on GitHub
1.	Log in to GitHub: Go to [github.com]](https://github.com/) and log in to your account.
2.	Access `Developer Settings`:
- Click on your profile picture in the top-right corner and `select` Settings.
- In the left sidebar, scroll down and click on `Developer settings`.
3.	Generate a New Token:
- Click on `Personal access tokens`, then select `Tokens (classic)`, and click `Generate new token`.
- Provide a descriptive name for the token to remind you of its purpose.
- Set an expiration date to enhance security.
```bash
1. repo: Grants full control over private and public repositories, including read and write permissions.
- This is necessary for Jenkins to access your GitHub repository for cloning, pulling, and pushing operations.
2.	admin:repo_hook: Allows management of repository-level webhooks.
- This enables Jenkins to automatically set up and manage webhooks in your repository to trigger builds.
3.	admin:org_hook (if applicable): Allows management of organization-level webhooks.
- This is necessary if you are running Jenkins jobs at the organization level.
4.	read:org: Allows reading of organization and team member information.
- This is useful for Jenkins to retrieve organizational structure information for authorization and access control.
5.	user:email: Allows reading the user’s primary email address.
- This helps Jenkins verify the user’s identity.
```
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 48 24 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/381b3c59-dbdb-4a12-957e-36b65eff9e19)

4. Click `Generate Token`.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 50 24 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9ea7157d-53dc-45c8-9337-6aac77a25719)
5. Copy the generated token immediately and store it securely. Once you leave this page, you will not be able to view it again.

## 3. Configure GitHub Credentials
1.	Access Jenkins Credentials:
- Log in to your Jenkins instance.
- Navigate to `Manage Jenkins` → `Credentials`.
- Select the appropriate domain (e.g., Global credentials (unrestricted)).
2.	Add New Credential:
- Click Add Credentials.
- In the Kind dropdown, select `Username with password`.
- Enter your GitHub username in the `Username` field.
- Paste the personal access token in the `Password` field.
- Provide a description to easily identify this credential.
- Click `OK` to save.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 2 59 14 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/af24497a-34d2-4c48-878b-3f363ba7f7c1)

## 4. Setting Up Source Control Management in Jenkins
1.	In the Jenkins dashboard, select the project you want to configure and click `Configure`
2.	In the Source Code Management section, select `Git`, then enter your repository URL.
3.	In the Credentials dropdown menu, select the GitHub credentials you added earlier.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 00 36 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02b8933c-2ad5-406d-a2ac-db8c957f398f)

## 5. Set Up a Webhook in GitHub:
1.	Go to your GitHub repository and click `Settings`.
2.	In the left sidebar, select `ebhooks`, then click `Add webhook`.
3.	In the Payload URL field, enter the URL of your Jenkins server, followed by /github-webhook/. For example: http://your-jenkins-server.com/github-webhook/.
4.	Set the Content type to `application/json`.
5.	Under Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?, select `Just the push event`.
6.	Click Add webhook to save.
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 03 20 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa749322-e9f4-4368-8fa0-fad5d06bd81e)

## 6. Configure Your Jenkins Job:
1.	In the Jenkins dashboard, select the job you want to configure and click Configure.
2.	In the Source Code Management section, select `Git`, enter your repository URL, and select the credentials you added earlier.
3.	In the Build Triggers section, check the box for `GitHub hook trigger for GITScm polling`.
4.	In the Build section, add the appropriate build steps, such as executing a shell script to install dependencies and run tests:
![Screenshot 2025-01-09 at 3 05 38 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c17cbfd-6171-4651-87cc-b77cec5402d3)

# Dockerize a react app
There two methods to dockerize a application, which are using Dockerfile and Docker Compose.

## What is the difference of Docker file and Docker Compose?
A Dockerfile is a text file that contains various of command to build a docker image. In this case, you can setup a Dockerfile with below commands:
```docker
From node:20
WORKDIR /app
COPY package.json ./
RUN npm install
COPY . .	
EXPOSE 5173
CMD [ "npm", "start" ]
```

Once you created a Dockerfile, you can enter below commands to build and run a docker image.
```bash
docker build  -f Dockerfile -t personal-website .
docker run -p 3000:3000 personal-website
```

A Docker Compose is a tools for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. We use a YAML file to define multiple services. In this case, you can setup a YAML with below commands:
```docker
version: '3'

services:
  personal-website:
    image: node:20
    working_dir: /app
    volumes:
      - .:/app
    ports:
      - "5173:5173"
    command: sh -c "npm install && npm start"
```

Once you created a YAML file, you can enter below commands to build and run a docker image.
```bash
docker compose up
```

# Build a docker image using Jenkins
## 1. Ensure Jenkins Has Access to Docker

In order for Jenkins to execute Docker commands, you need to ensure that the Jenkins container has access to Docker.

On Unraid, you can achieve this by mounting the Docker Unix socket (/var/run/docker.sock) to the Jenkins container.
1.	Edit Jenkins Container Settings: Go to the `Docker` settings page in Unraid, find the Jenkins container, and click `Edit`.
2.	Add Mount Point: In the `Add another Path, Port, Variable, Label or Device` section, click `Add another Path`.
3.	Set Mount Point:
- **Container Path**: `/var/run/docker.sock`
- **Host Path**: `/var/run/docker.sock`
- **Access Mode**: `Read/Write`
```bash
-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
-v /usr/bin/docker:/usr/bin/docker \
```
<img width="1617" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 12 58 22 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/29aa11c2-415a-4725-a0c3-7b1349868d02" />

## 2. Check Docker Socket Permissions
```bash
chmod 666 /var/run/docker.sock
```
> Please note that doing this may introduce security risks, as it grants Jenkins full control over the host’s Docker.
> Therefore, make sure you trust all the code running in Jenkins jobs.


## 3. Install Required Plugins in Jenkins
Docker Pipeline Plugin: Allows the use of Docker functionality within Jenkins Pipelines.

To install this plugin:
- On the Jenkins homepage, click `Manage Jenkins`.
- Select `Plugins`.
- In the Available tab, search for `Docker Pipeline`.
- Check the plugin and then click Install without restart.
<img width="1230" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 05 18 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9fce8ac3-fe0d-40c4-b654-c03c6b424e79" />

## 4. Add Docker Build and Docker Run Commands in Execute Shell
To build and run a Docker container as part of your Jenkins job, you can add the following Docker commands to the Execute shell section:
```bash
docker build -t personal-website -f /config/workspace/personal-website/Dockerfile /config/workspace/personal-website
docker run -d -p 5173:5173 --name my-first-website personal-website
```
<img width="1059" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 23 16 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/512dc0f7-b4be-4e3b-a7ba-d0fbd3eebc2b" />
<img width="968" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 22 01 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cb4f9ec9-bd3b-48fc-a1e8-c0bc7e398d5b" />
<img width="1615" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 24 25 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9773850c-2e8d-4b99-bd7f-aa54452a35ea"/>
<img width="1077" alt="Screenshot 2025-01-10 at 1 25 03 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a0eaf0c-cea5-41ef-812d-2eb03752ea51" />
